Predictive Maintenance of vehicles in the Automotive Industry

I delve into a problem that is peculiar to the automotive industry. The business problem hinges on the leverage of predictive analytics and machine learning techniques to act as a forerunner of vehicle component failures before they happen, this would aid in the reduction of downtime, enhancing safety, and lowering maintenance costs.
Furthermore, the exact business scenario is divided into three facets. The first one is to predict the insurance coverage for the vehicle based on specific characteristics. Second, predict the type of failure and lastly apportion the vehicles to groups based on certain characteristics. The first facet is essential because vehicles can be quite expensive and thus it requires insurance to protect both customers and dealerships. This coverage helps mitigate financial losses from accidents and vehicle part failure. Moreover, the relevance of the second facet would aid in enhancing operational efficiency by minimizing unplanned downtime, by scheduling maintenance activities before a failure occurs and ensuring continuous production. Also, it will reduce costs by addressing problems before they compound. Usually, the cost of compounded damages and unforeseen imminent repairs are immensely reduced.
Finally, the safety of the users of the vehicles is enhanced by ensuring that all components are functioning efficiently and effectively. When this is achieved, it then leads to the satisfaction of the customers by giving them the impression that vehicles purchased from company XYZ are well-maintained and reliable.
